after the
invasion in North Africa. I thought I was going to
be in on that invasion until I found out that the
13th Field Artillery from Fort
Bragg, North Carolina. Now We fired our guns the
first time.
We got new guns and I fired them the first time in
Europe. But,
sitting there at Camp Sutton, we were at one end of
the big field range up at Fort Bragg. So the minute I
got those guns,
they were different from the French GPFs with
which this cavalry regiment had been issued for
training. Now these boys that I inherited were
cavalrymen, horse cavalrymen. And the officers
were all very fine horsemen and swordsmen. and
could run the courses for shooting pistols and
this and that and the other. And to take a regiment
like that and take their damn 16 ounce sabers away
from them and give them 16 ton guns of an obsolete
French vintage and in order to shoot those French
guns you had to build a storm cellar, dig a recoil
pit as deep as a storm cellar in Kansas
before you shoot them. And now to expect trained
horse cavalrymen, horsemen over a long period of
time, to come in and be good artilleryman, like
that. Well, of course, it can't be done. Now,
when they, in the, in the... National Guard? Yes,
in the National Guard, there's a lot that they can
learn at home. And what they learn at home, is
really just a school teaching job with exercises
on the weekend to get some degree of practicality
into it. Just a laboratory exercise, see. Now,
right today, the average National Guard unit
could go on the range up here, now assuming that
they have the same equipment and most of them do. If
they have the same identical equipment and the
same identical, when I say equipment I mean range
finders.
They can go up there and they can shoot those guns
just as good as those guys that have been sitting
around for several months waiting for it to become
seasonable. and also you've got to be a good
guardsman. You've got to keep up on your reading,
your techniques. So, and those people, and they
do, they can go there. So, they were well prepared.
give them the same. Now they may be a little slower
doing it than the guys that have done that and
grabbed the round of ammunition where it's laying
every time he's been on the field and slam it in the
reach of the gun. Some of the guns are still sitting
where they were before they were last shot. At
least they were when I was at the school.
So when it comes to the intelligence of the
techniques of doing a thing, the guardsmen know it
just as well as the regulars. Sometimes a damn
sight better. I have one last question for you. And
that is, when and why did you retire from the
Wisconsin National Guard?
for the simple reason that I had reached the age of
sixty.
So, I thought it was a good time to quit.
That's when I first became eligible. I never
thought a National Guardsman would ever get any
retired pay. That's a post-war
thing, but When I was sixty I was on the job and
joined it. So, I would have stayed another year
even though I didn't have to or had reached the, it
was not, I could have gone to age sixty-four. But
you thought it was a good time for you to retire
then? Well now look, a good friend of mine named,
a
good friend of mine that was colonel of the other,
one of the other regiments in the original 32nd
Division, he had been detached from the 32nd
Division with not only himself but the whole
regiment off to a place over here. Now I did have a
choice.
When they triangularized the division,
the man who supervised the triangularization
was a general
I know the name until I have to say it.
But anyway, he stayed on. Clemens, Clemens,
Clemens. Brigadier General Clemens was at 61, was
according to the division command, according to
Herman
the German. Kruger. Kruger. according to
Krueger, he couldn't go overseas. So, he says now
the major general was about a $75,000 a year
lawyer,
and Milwaukee
in those days was pretty close to the top. You had to
have a terrific set of clients. But you could have
continued if you wanted to, but you just made up
your mind that you were not interested in it. Well,
if I had stayed on
another year,
this guy's name was Bridester, Fritz Bridester.
Fritz Bridester was a graduate of West Point. He
was captain of the football team. He was one of the
great athletes. You can go up there today and look
at their trophies at West Point. In the period that
Prince Bridgestone was there, he was the great man
on the field and in soldiering and everything. He
was a big fella. He went and after West Point he
stayed in the Army a couple or three years and
married
one of the very wealthy families of Milwaukee. And
his wife and her family had barrels of money and
they provided the yeast. That was one of the things
they provided for all the beer that was made in
Milwaukee. Well, that's a pretty good monopoly.
Yeah, that sure is. And that was just one thing they
provided. But he could have had to retire? He was
forced into retirement in Wisconsin? Well, after
he marries this gal, instead of doing like a lot of
guys, saying, well,
And he says, I owe the government something. So he
joined the National Guard and he too came in as a
captain. With the West Point diploma he was
certainly more qualified than I was.
and we'll make you a captain." You see the guard can
trade on the guy of ability like that, whereas the
regular army can't. But the guy, they say you're a
second lieutenant and you're going to be a second
lieutenant for the next X number of years until so
and so. Well if a guy like Fritz Breitster, he was
felt an obligation for his education, although
his family was pretty well fixed, too. And so he
came in, and Fritz was always ahead of me,
actually, on the list. But in the
matter of warfare, Fritz wound up in a staff job
under,
out in the, out in the Orient. He wound up on a staff
job under the,
Denninger Joe. Stillwell. Yeah, one of the
sorriest damn generals that ever pinned on a star.
But nevertheless, a man that captured the
imagination. journalism. Why do you say that
about Stilwell? Well that's maybe more than you'd
have time to listen to. Stilwell was a good old
regular army garrison type soldier. He found
himself in a situation where he didn't know what to
do, so he decided to just pack up his toothbrush and
shaving kit, if any, and get out and walk across
Burma.
Well, a real general would have sent a plane in
here, or they'd have gone to the Chiang Kai-shek or
whatever his name was, that Chinaman He said, I'm a
general. I got other things to do. Now get me out of
here damn quick. Now that's what a general would
do. But this good old honest infantryman
had to do the honest thing. I'll walk out with my
people. See? That's like God damn grandstand.
But it Sure did pay off as far as publicity is
concerned. And the documents. People writing the
history of the campaign can't avoid the fact that
Vinegar Joe, he was well known, named. You give me
an army officer's nickname and I damn near got his
record.